concepts/data-connect-faq.md, before:

---
title: "Microsoft Graph Data Connect frequently asked questions"
description: "Get tips that will help you take advantage of Microsoft Graph Data Connect."
author: "fercobo-msft"
localization_priority: Priority
ms.prod: "data-connect"
---

# Microsoft Graph Data Connect frequently asked questions

Microsoft Graph Data Connect allows developers to create applications that customers can provide managed access to their at-scale Microsoft Graph datasets. This article provides tips that will help you take advantage of the Data Connect feature. For an introduction to Microsoft Graph Data Connect, see the [Overview](data-connect-concept-overview.md) article.

## Is Microsoft Graph Data Connect right for you?

Data Connect and the Microsoft Graph APIs provide access to the same underlying data but in very different ways. Data Connect is designed to extract large amounts of data in bulk while the Microsoft Graph APIs are more suitable for accessing discrete sets of data in real time. In some cases, it might even make sense to combine them. For example, you might want use Data Connect to do an initial extraction of the last year of email data, and then use the Microsoft Graph APIs to analyze emails in real time moving forward. Data Connect and the Microsoft Graph APIs are different tools for different jobs. It's important to think about which access method best fits your scenario.

## Will there be any initial overhead?

Because Data Connect is designed to extract large amounts of data in bulk, some overhead is incurred before the data can be extracted. This overhead is around 45 minutes, meaning all pipelines will take at least that long regardless of the data size. This might be a negligible cost for large amounts of data, but if this time is unacceptable for your scenario, the Microsoft Graph APIs might provide a better approach.

## How much do I have to pay for Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

Microsoft Graph Data Connect consumption charges are billed monthly on a pay-as-you-go basis. Charges are calculated using a flat rate based on the count of per-1,000 objects extracted through the connector. There is no charge for extraction of objects from the following datasets: BasicDataSet_v0.User, BasicDataSet_v0.MailboxSettings, BasicDataSet_v0.Manager, and BasicDataSet_v0.DirectReport.

| Price                                    |                                 |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Microsoft Graph Data Connect objects** | $0.375 per 1K objects extracted |

## Is it possible for my data to stay within the organization's subscription with Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

Data Connect pipelines are orchestrated by Azure Data Factory, a data integration service that runs in an Azure subscription. The Azure subscription is [associated with exactly one Microsoft 365 tenant](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-subscriptions-associated-directory). This way, the data must initially flow to an associated Azure subscription. After further minimalization and aggregation, the data can be used elsewhere.

If you want to build an app for others to use to extract their Microsoft 365 data, you can package the app as an [Azure managed application](/azure/managed-applications/overview) and publish it to the Azure Marketplace. Then someone can deploy your app into their own Azure subscription, and the app can access data in their tenant.

## Are service principals required with Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

When creating the Data Factory pipeline, you will have to provide a service principal to the Microsoft 365 linked service. In Azure, a service principal is a security identity that represents an application/service (as opposed to a user). Data Connect uses this service principal as its identity when getting authorized access to your Microsoft 365 data.
If you create an Azure Managed Application for others to use in their tenants, you'll still provide a service principal for the app to use. This service principal will exist in your (the publisher's) tenant. However, if the app needs other service principals, your customer (the installer) will create them in their own tenant. For example, your Data Factory pipeline will likely need access to a storage resource in Azure. The customer would create the service principal with permissions to the storage account for the pipeline to use.

## How can I check for pending Privileged Access Management requests?

Before Data Connect can copy your data, an administrator must approve a Privileged Access Management (PAM) request. PAM is the mechanism used to authorize your data pipeline access to the data in Microsoft 365. The first time you trigger a pipeline, it will wait on a Microsoft 365 administrator (or appointed delegate) to approve the access request. Although the pipeline status shows **In progress**, the underlying copy activity will have a status of **ConsentPending** until approval is granted, as shown in the following screenshot.

![Screenshot of the pipeline run status pane with a status of ConsentPending](images/data-connect-tips.png)

During development, it's a good idea to make sure your pipeline runs aren't stuck on **ConsentPending**, especially after you make a change to your pipeline. For example, if you add an additional field to the schema, the next pipeline run will issue a new PAM request that has to be approved. Don't waste time waiting on a pipeline that's waiting for your approval.

## How can I approve PAM requests via Microsoft 365 admin portal?

The Data Connect documentation shows you how to use PowerShell and the PAM UX to approve PAM requests. To approve using the PAM UX, visit the PAM interface in the [Microsoft 365 admin portal](https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/Settings/PrivilegedAccess). The portal provides an easy and user-friendly way to view and approve/deny/revoke PAM requests. You can find a link to it in the Microsoft Graph Data Connect add-in under **Settings** > **Services & Add-ins** > **Microsoft Graph Data Connect**.

## Can I have a second user to approve PAM requests?

When you run a pipeline and trigger a PAM request, the request is attached to your user account that owns the service principal used by the pipeline. But even if this account is part of the approver group you set up, you can't use it to approve the PAM request because self-approvals are not allowed. If you try, you'll get an error message in the PAM portal: "Requestor and approver are the same. Self-approval is not allowed." For development, you'll want to have a second account in addition to the admin who approves requests. Both the submitter and the approver must have active Exchange Online accounts.

## Can I deduplicate emails when needed?

When you extract emails from the `Message` dataset, there will often be multiple JSON objects for the same email. These duplicates exist because when an email is sent to multiple people, there is a copy of the email in every recipient's mailbox. Because the dataset is extracted from every mailbox, it will contain all copies across users. In some scenarios, it might be necessary to keep every copy but in others, you may want to remove the duplicates.
You can deduplicate the exported JSON objects based on the `internetMessageId` of the messages: Two messages with the same `internetMessageId` are duplicate copies of the same instance. Because the duplicates can exist in different blobs, you must deduplicate across all blobs rather than deduplicating in each blob separately.

## Can I use puser field to determine the relevant user?

The extracted data includes some meta properties that don't exist when using the corresponding Microsoft Graph APIs. Specifically, the `puser` field can be useful for determining which user the data was extracted from. In the scenario where you have two copies of the same email in different mailboxes, you can use the `puser` field to determine which copy came from which mailbox.
The `puser` field is also useful for datasets such as the `Manager` dataset. The exported JSON will contain information about a manager, but this is only useful if you know whose manager they are. The `puser` field will tell you whose manager that JSON object corresponds to.

## Next steps
<!-- Need to find a link to this next step -->

Commit message:

Added additional questions/answers for the faq

concepts/data-connect-faq.md, after:

---
title: "Microsoft Graph Data Connect frequently asked questions"
description: "Get tips that will help you take advantage of Microsoft Graph Data Connect."
author: "fercobo-msft"
localization_priority: Priority
ms.prod: "data-connect"
---

# Microsoft Graph Data Connect frequently asked questions

Microsoft Graph Data Connect allows developers to create applications that customers can provide managed access to their at-scale Microsoft Graph datasets. This article provides tips that will help you take advantage of the Data Connect feature. For an introduction to Microsoft Graph Data Connect, see the [Overview](data-connect-concept-overview.md) article.

## Is Microsoft Graph Data Connect right for you?

Data Connect and the Microsoft Graph APIs provide access to the same underlying data but in very different ways. Data Connect is designed to extract large amounts of data in bulk while the Microsoft Graph APIs are more suitable for accessing discrete sets of data in real time. In some cases, it might even make sense to combine them. For example, you might want use Data Connect to do an initial extraction of the last year of email data, and then use the Microsoft Graph APIs to analyze emails in real time moving forward. Data Connect and the Microsoft Graph APIs are different tools for different jobs. It's important to think about which access method best fits your scenario.

## Will there be any initial overhead?

Because Data Connect is designed to extract large amounts of data in bulk, some overhead is incurred before the data can be extracted. This overhead is around 45 minutes, meaning all pipelines will take at least that long regardless of the data size. This might be a negligible cost for large amounts of data, but if this time is unacceptable for your scenario, the Microsoft Graph APIs might provide a better approach.

## How much do I have to pay for Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

Microsoft Graph Data Connect consumption charges are billed monthly on a pay-as-you-go basis. Charges are calculated using a flat rate based on the count of per-1,000 objects extracted through the connector. There is no charge for extraction of objects from the following datasets: BasicDataSet_v0.User, BasicDataSet_v0.MailboxSettings, BasicDataSet_v0.Manager, and BasicDataSet_v0.DirectReport.

| Price                                    |                                 |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Microsoft Graph Data Connect objects** | $0.375 per 1K objects extracted |

## Is it possible for my data to stay within the organization's subscription with Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

Data Connect pipelines are orchestrated by Azure Data Factory, a data integration service that runs in an Azure subscription. The Azure subscription is [associated with exactly one Microsoft 365 tenant](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-subscriptions-associated-directory). This way, the data must initially flow to an associated Azure subscription. After further minimalization and aggregation, the data can be used elsewhere.

If you want to build an app for others to use to extract their Microsoft 365 data, you can package the app as an [Azure managed application](/azure/managed-applications/overview) and publish it to the Azure Marketplace. Then someone can deploy your app into their own Azure subscription, and the app can access data in their tenant.

## Are service principals required with Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

When creating the Data Factory pipeline, you will have to provide a service principal to the Microsoft 365 linked service. In Azure, a service principal is a security identity that represents an application/service (as opposed to a user). Data Connect uses this service principal as its identity when getting authorized access to your Microsoft 365 data.
If you create an Azure Managed Application for others to use in their tenants, you'll still provide a service principal for the app to use. This service principal will exist in your (the publisher's) tenant. However, if the app needs other service principals, your customer (the installer) will create them in their own tenant. For example, your Data Factory pipeline will likely need access to a storage resource in Azure. The customer would create the service principal with permissions to the storage account for the pipeline to use.

## How can I check for pending Privileged Access Management requests?

Before Data Connect can copy your data, an administrator must approve a Privileged Access Management (PAM) request. PAM is the mechanism used to authorize your data pipeline access to the data in Microsoft 365. The first time you trigger a pipeline, it will wait on a Microsoft 365 administrator (or appointed delegate) to approve the access request. Although the pipeline status shows **In progress**, the underlying copy activity will have a status of **ConsentPending** until approval is granted, as shown in the following screenshot.

![Screenshot of the pipeline run status pane with a status of ConsentPending](images/data-connect-tips.png)

During development, it's a good idea to make sure your pipeline runs aren't stuck on **ConsentPending**, especially after you make a change to your pipeline. For example, if you add an additional field to the schema, the next pipeline run will issue a new PAM request that has to be approved. Don't waste time waiting on a pipeline that's waiting for your approval.

## How can I approve PAM requests via Microsoft 365 admin portal?

The Data Connect documentation shows you how to use PowerShell and the PAM UX to approve PAM requests. To approve using the PAM UX, visit the PAM interface in the [Microsoft 365 admin portal](https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/Settings/PrivilegedAccess). The portal provides an easy and user-friendly way to view and approve/deny/revoke PAM requests. You can find a link to it in the Microsoft Graph Data Connect add-in under **Settings** > **Services & Add-ins** > **Microsoft Graph Data Connect**.

## Can I have a second user to approve PAM requests?

When you run a pipeline and trigger a PAM request, the request is attached to your user account that owns the service principal used by the pipeline. But even if this account is part of the approver group you set up, you can't use it to approve the PAM request because self-approvals are not allowed. If you try, you'll get an error message in the PAM portal: "Requestor and approver are the same. Self-approval is not allowed." For development, you'll want to have a second account in addition to the admin who approves requests. Both the submitter and the approver must have active Exchange Online accounts.

## Can I deduplicate emails when needed?

When you extract emails from the `Message` dataset, there will often be multiple JSON objects for the same email. These duplicates exist because when an email is sent to multiple people, there is a copy of the email in every recipient's mailbox. Because the dataset is extracted from every mailbox, it will contain all copies across users. In some scenarios, it might be necessary to keep every copy but in others, you may want to remove the duplicates.
You can deduplicate the exported JSON objects based on the `internetMessageId` of the messages: Two messages with the same `internetMessageId` are duplicate copies of the same instance. Because the duplicates can exist in different blobs, you must deduplicate across all blobs rather than deduplicating in each blob separately.

## Can I use puser field to determine the relevant user?

The extracted data includes some meta properties that don't exist when using the corresponding Microsoft Graph APIs. Specifically, the `puser` field can be useful for determining which user the data was extracted from. In the scenario where you have two copies of the same email in different mailboxes, you can use the `puser` field to determine which copy came from which mailbox.
The `puser` field is also useful for datasets such as the `Manager` dataset. The exported JSON will contain information about a manager, but this is only useful if you know whose manager they are. The `puser` field will tell you whose manager that JSON object corresponds to.

## My user list provided is a mix of users with Workplace Analytics license and some user without Workplace Analytics license, is this something supported?

Today, we require all users in user list to either have Workplace Analytics license or all users in user list to not have Workplace Analytics license. Unfortunately, we do not supported mixed user list, i.e. some users have Workplace Analytics license and some do not. This is because if users in user list have Workplace Analytics license then no additional charges are required for Graph Data Connect, whereas if customers do not have Workplace Analytics license, then customers are billed using consumption billing detailed here. If this is breaking your use case today, please let us know and we can see if there are opportunities to help your scenario here.

## Is Hybrid mode tenant setup supported?

If your Office 365 setup have some users in Exchange Online and some users in Exchange On-Prem then the users who are in Exchange On- Prem would not be supported.
Unfortunately, today we do not support Graph Data Connect for Exchange On-Prem users.

## Are resource accounts, and resource license supported?

If your user list contains resource account, then we do not support access to messages or events data from Resource accounts today. Adding support for these account types is in our backlog, but we do not support them today.

## After some ADF pipeline run for Microsoft Graph Data Connect we are seeing multiple output files, whereas sometimes ADF pipeline run for Microsoft Graph Data Connect output is only 1 file?

Microsoft Graph Data Connect takes user list for each pipeline run and then distributes the dataset extraction and curation across multiple jobs that run in parallel. For each parallel run, 1 output file is generated in the data sink defined by the customer. For some cases, if the user list is small, they may be mapped into 1 extraction and curation job, and in those cases only 1 output file would be generated in the data sink.

## Microsoft Graph Data Connect charges in order of 1000 objects but how is the billing computed when objects count is not exactly divisible by 1000?

For billing purposes, Microsoft Graph Data Connect rounds up to the extracted object count to nearest 1000. For e.g. If customer extracts 125 objects or they extract 999 objects, they will be billed for 1000 objects. Similarly, if customers extract between 1001 to 2000 objects, they would be charged for 2000 objects.

## What is the billing unit "objects" that Microsoft Graph Data Connect uses? And how does "objects" map to different datasets in Microsoft Graph Data Connect?

Microsoft Graph Data Connect billing unit is in multiple of 1000s of "object", where 1 "object" maps to 1 individual instance of an entity in Office 365. For e.g. 1 email == 1 object, 1 file == 1 object, 1 Teams chat message == 1 object, etc.
My Office 365 copy data activity is always failing when initialized via Azure Synapse. Why is this happening?
Today, we do not support Office 365 copy data activity to be initialized via Azure Synapse. We are working towards adding the integration for Azure Synapse initialized activity and would update our documentation when this is completed.

## Next steps
<!-- Need to find a link to this next step -->
